# How to become a validator on the Althea testnet!

## What do I need?

A Linux server with any modern Linux distribution, 4cores, 8gb of ram and at least 20gb of SSD storage.

In theory Althea chain can be run on Windows and Mac. Binaries are provided on the releases page. But instructions are not provided.

I also suggest an open notepad or other document to keep track of the keys you will be generating.

## Bootstrapping steps and commands

### Download Althea chain and the Gravity tools

```

mkdir althea-bin
cd althea-bin

# the althea chain binary itself

wget https://github.com/althea-net/althea-chain/releases/download/v0.1.1/althea-0.0.5-10-g8141769-linux-amd64
mv althea-0.0.5-10-g8141769-linux-amd64 althea

# Tools for the gravity bridge from the gravity repo

wget https://github.com/althea-net/althea-chain/releases/download/v0.1.1/client
wget https://github.com/althea-net/althea-chain/releases/download/v0.1.1/orchestrator
wget https://github.com/althea-net/althea-chain/releases/download/v0.1.1/register-delegate-keys
wget https://github.com/althea-net/althea-chain/releases/download/v0.1.1/relayer
chmod +x *
sudo mv * /usr/bin/

```

At specific points during the testnet you may be told to 'update your orchestrator' or 'update your althea binary'. In order to do that you can simply repeat the above instructions and then restart the affected software.

### Generate your key

Be sure to back up the phrase you get! You’ll need it in a bit. If you don't back up the phrase here just follow the steps again to generate a new key.

Note 'myvalidatorkeyname' is just the name of your key here, you can pick anything you like, just remember it later.

You'll be prompted to create a password, I suggest you pick something short since you'll be typing it a lot

```

cd $HOME
althea init mymoniker --chain-id althea-testnet2v1
althea keys add myvalidatorkeyname

```

### Copy the genesis file

```

wget https://github.com/althea-net/althea-chain/releases/download/v0.1.1/althea-testnet2v1-genesis.json
cp althea-testnet2-v1-genesis.json $HOME/.althea/config/genesis.json

```

### Add persistent peers

Change the p2p.persistent_peers field in ~/.althea/config/config.toml to contain the following:

```

persistent_peers = "05ded2f258ab158c5526eb53aa14d122367115a7@testnet1.althea.net:26656"

```

### Increasing the default open files limit

If we don't raise this value nodes will crash once the network grows large enough

```

sudo su -c "echo 'fs.file-max = 65536' >> /etc/sysctl.conf"
sysctl -p

```

### Start your full node and wait for it to sync

Ask what the current blockheight is in the chat

```

althea start

```

### Request some funds be sent to your address

First find your address

```

althea keys list

```

Copy your address from the 'address' field and paste it into the command below remember to remove the `<>`

```

curl -vv -XPOST http://testnet2.althea.net/get_altg/<your address here without the brackets>

```

This will provide you 10 ALTG from the faucet storage.

### Send your validator setup transaction

```

althea tx staking create-validator \
 --amount=9000000ualtg \
 --pubkey=$(althea tendermint show-validator) \
 --moniker="put your validator name here" \
 --chain-id=althea-testnet2v1 \
 --commission-rate="0.10" \
 --commission-max-rate="0.20" \
 --commission-max-change-rate="0.01" \
 --min-self-delegation="1" \
 --gas="auto" \
 --gas-adjustment=1.5 \
 --gas-prices="0.025ualtg" \
 --from=myvalidatorkeyname

```

### Confirm that you are validating

If you see one line in the response you are validating. If you don't see any output from this command you are not validating. Check that the last command ran successfully.

Be sure to replace 'my validator key name' with your actual key name. If you want to double check you can see all your keys with 'althea keys list'

```

althea query staking validator $(althea keys show myvalidatorkeyname --bech val --address)

```

### Setup Gravity bridge

You are now validating on the Althea blockchain. But as a validator you also need to run the Gravity bridge components or you will be slashed and removed from the validator set after about 16 hours.

### Register your delegate keys

Delegate keys allow the for the validator private keys to be kept in secure storage while the Orchestrator can use it's own delegated keys for Gravity functions. The delegate keys registration tool will generate Ethereum and Cosmos keys for you if you don't provide any. Please save them as you will need them later.

This call will be added to the Gravity cli before production to provide Ledger signing support.

Once you save the phrase generated by this command you will have two phrases to keep track of. The one generated here is your 'delegate address' and the one you generated before is your 'validator address'.

```

RUST_LOG=INFO register-delegate-keys --prefix="althea" --validator-phrase="the phrase you saved earlier" --cosmos-grpc="http://localhost:9090" --fees=ufootoken

```

### Fund your delegate keys

Both your Ethereum delegate key and your Cosmos delegate key will need some tokens to pay gas. On the Althea chain side you where sent some 'footoken' along with your ALTG. We're essentially using footoken as a gas token for this testnet.

You should have received 100 Althea Governance Token in uALTG and the same amount of footoken. We're going to send half to the delegate address

To get the address for your validator key you can run the below, where 'myvalidatorkeyname' is whatever you named your key in the 'generate your key' step.

```

althea keys show myvalidatorkeyname

```

```

althea tx bank send myvalidatorkeyname <your delegate cosmos address> 5000000ufootoken --chain-id=althea-testnet2v1

```

With the Althea side funded, now we need some Goerli Eth

```

curl -vv -XPOST http://testnet2.althea.net/get_eth/<your address here without the brackets>

```

### Download and setup Geth on the Goerli testnet

We will be using Geth Ethereum light clients for this task. For production Gravity we suggest that you point your Orchestrator at a Geth light client and then configure your light client to peer with full nodes that you control. This provides higher reliability as light clients are very quick to start/stop and resync. Allowing you to for example rebuild an Ethereum full node without having days of Orchestrator downtime.

Please note that only Geth full nodes can serve Geth light clients, no other node type will do. Also you must configure a Geth full node to serve light client requests as they do not do so by default.

For the purposes of this testnet just follow the instructions below, even on the slowest node you should be synced inside of a few minutes.

```

wget https://gethstore.blob.core.windows.net/builds/geth-linux-amd64-1.10.1-c2d2f4ed.tar.gz
tar -xvf geth-linux-amd64-1.10.1-c2d2f4ed.tar.gz
cd geth-linux-amd64-1.10.1-c2d2f4ed
./geth --syncmode "light" --goerli --http --cache 16

```

### Deployment of the Gravity contract

Once 66% of the validator set has registered their delegate Ethereum key it is possible to deploy the Gravity Ethereum contract. Once deployed the Gravity contract address on Görli will be posted here

Here is the contract address! Move forward!

```

0xaBd76cAAcD14Bb18D9857BA88175C24a6826a9C7

```

### Start your Orchestrator

Now that the setup is complete you can start your Orchestrator. Use the Cosmos mnemonic generated in the 'register delegate keys' step and the Ethereum private key also generated in that step. You should setup your Orchestrator in systemd or elsewhere to keep it running and restart it when it crashes.

If your Orchestrator goes down for more than 16 hours during the testnet you will be slashed and booted from the active validator set.

Since you'll be running this a lot I suggest putting the command into a script, like so

```

nano start-orchestrator.sh

```

```

#!/bin/bash
RUST_LOG=INFO orchestrator \
 --cosmos-phrase="your delegate key phrase" \
 --ethereum-key="your delegate ethereum private key" \
 --cosmos-grpc="http://localhost:9090" \
 --ethereum-rpc="http://localhost:8545" \
 --fees=ufootoken \
 --contract-address="0xaBd76cAAcD14Bb18D9857BA88175C24a6826a9C7"

```

```

bash start-orchestrator.sh

```
